OSDOCS-18134: JTBD Docs Enhancement Gateway API Listeners (#108093)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/configuring-listener-routing-security.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="configuring-listener-routing-security_{context}"]
= Configure listener routing and security settings

[role="_abstract"]

> To ensure that your applications receive only legitimate and safe traffic, you must specify the allowed protocols, ports, and secure connections for your gateway. You can define these parameters by configuring the `spec.listeners` field in your `Gateway` custom resource (CR).

Reviewer: the line 6 is slightly confusing to me, as it says you must specify X, Y and secure connections for your gateway (should I specify something for secure connections? is this something else?)

Maybe remove the secure connections for your gateway and make its own phrase, as I assume you are speaking about TLS here?

.Procedure

. Create a YAML file that defines your `Gateway` object and its listeners. You can customize the `spec.listeners` field with the following settings:
+
--
* Port and protocol: Define the network port and protocol, such as `80`/`HTTP` or `443`/`HTTPS`, that the listener uses.
* TLS configuration: Specify the TLS settings for secure communication, including the mode (currently, only `Terminate` is supported on {product-title}) and the Kubernetes secret containing the certificate keypair.
* Hostnames: Define the hostnames, such as `www.example.com` or `example.com`, that the listener matches for incoming requests.
* Allowed routes: Control which `Route` resources can attach to this listener:
** `All`: Accepts attachments from routes in any namespace.
** `Selector`: Accepts attachments from routes in namespaces that match a specified label selector.

> ** `Same`: Not supported by the Gateway API on {product-title}.

Reviewer 2: I think that here we would like to explain that OpenShift 4.22 only supports `All` or `Selector` but not the ability to explicitly set `Same`, in this case the phrasing should be clarified to say something like: "Setting allowedRoutes.namespaces.from: Same is not supported; routes from the same namespace as the Gateway are always allowed."

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * controlling-incoming-traffic-gateway-listeners.adoc
//
:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="configuring-listener-routing-security_{context}"]
= Configure listener routing and security settings

[role="_abstract"]

> To ensure that your applications receive only legitimate and safe traffic, you must specify the allowed protocols and ports for your gateway. If you are routing secure traffic, you must also configure TLS settings. You can define these parameters by configuring the `spec.listeners` field in your `Gateway` custom resource (CR).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To ensure that your applications receive only authenticated traffic, you must specify the allowed protocols and ports for your gateway. If you are routing secure traffic, you must also configure TLS settings. You can define these parameters by configuring the `spec.listeners` field in your `Gateway` custom resource (CR).
```
not sure if you mean authenticated or authorized (or both), but those are the correct words from a technical perspective

.Procedure

> . Create a YAML file that defines your `Gateway` object and its listeners. You can customize the `spec.listeners` field with the following settings:

Reviewer 3: concept info should not be between the step and example; this second sentence and the details belong after the yaml

+
--
* Port and protocol: Define the network port and protocol, such as `80`/`HTTP` or `443`/`HTTPS`, that the listener uses.
* TLS configuration: Specify the TLS settings for secure communication, including the mode (currently, only `Terminate` is supported on {product-title}) and the Kubernetes secret containing the certificate keypair. You must define this field when the listener protocol is set to `HTTPS`. Ensure that the specified Kubernetes secret exists before you create the `Gateway` object.
* Hostnames: Define the hostnames, such as `www.example.com` or `example.com`, that the listener matches for incoming requests.
* Allowed routes: Control which `Route` resources can attach to this listener:
** `All`: Accepts attachments from routes in any namespace.
** `Selector`: Accepts attachments from routes in namespaces that match a specified label selector.
** `Same`: Setting `allowedRoutes.namespaces.from: Same` is not supported; routes from the same namespace as the Gateway are always allowed.
--

> 

Reviewer 3: where is the YAML for step 1?

> . Review the following example configuration, which creates a `Gateway` object with both HTTP and HTTPS listeners:

Reviewer 3: is this actually the YAML? if so, this should be one step with either a separate reference module after it, or all of the bullets after the file;
this formatting is confusing and is not really compliant

          matchLabels:
            env: "dev"
  - protocol: HTTPS 
    port: 443
    name: https
    hostname: "*.mydomain.tld" 
    tls: 
      mode: Terminate
      certificateRefs:
        - name: listener-cert
          kind: Secret
    allowedRoutes: 
      namespaces:
        from: All
----
+
--
* `spec.listeners` defines the list of listeners for the Gateway. This example defines two listeners, one for HTTP and one for HTTPS.
* `protocol: HTTP` accepts HTTP traffic on port `80`. Since no hostname is specified, it routes any traffic that can attach to it.
* `allowedRoutes` for the HTTP listener only allows `HTTPRoute` resources from namespaces that have the `env: "dev"` label.
* `protocol: HTTPS` accepts HTTPS traffic on port `443`.
* `hostname` matches only requests for hostnames ending in `mydomain.tld` (for example, `www.mydomain.tld` or `api.mydomain.tld`).
* `tls` terminates TLS at the Gateway using a certificate stored in a Kubernetes `Secret` called `listener-cert`.
* `allowedRoutes` for the HTTPS listener allows `HTTPRoute` resources from any namespace to attach.
--

. Apply the `Gateway` configuration by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----

> $ oc apply -f <filename>.yaml

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
$ oc apply -f <gateway_cr>.yaml
```
* Replace `<gateway_cr>` with the name of your configuration file.
